=pod

=head1 NAME

perl-migrate-modules - Migrate installed CPAN modules from one Perl to another

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  perl-migrate-modules [OPTIONS] [<src-path>] <dest-path>

    perl-migrate-modules /path/to/perl-5.28.0 /path/to/perl-5.28.1
    perl-migrate-modules -nq -Ilib /usr/bin/perl ~/bin/perl
    perl-migrate-modules --from ~/perl5/lib/perl5 ~/perls/5.20.0

  Options:
    -h, --help                   Show this message
    -f <path>, --from=<path>     Search only these path(s) for source modules
    -I <path>, --lib=<path>      Additional search path(s) for source modules
    -n, --notest                 Skip testing and test dependencies
    -q, --quiet                  Show only installation successes and failures
    -v, --version                Show the version of this script

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Reinstalls all modules found in the source Perl into the destination Perl,
similar to the C<clone-modules> command for L<perlbrew> or the
C<migrate-modules> command for L<plenv|https://github.com/tokuhirom/plenv>. The
Perls may be passed as paths to the base installation directory or paths to the
F<perl> executable itself. If only one path is passed, it will be used as both
the source and destination.

The C<-I>/C<--lib> option allows specifying additional search paths for modules
from the source Perl, such as L<local::lib> directories. The install behavior
for the destination Perl can be influenced using standard Perl and L<cpanm>
environment variables, such as L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker/PERL_MM_OPT>,
L<Module::Build/PERL_MB_OPT>, and L<cpanm/PERL_CPANM_OPT>.

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over

=item *

Basic migration of modules to a newly installed Perl:

  $ perl-migrate-modules /opt/perl-5.20.3 /opt/perl-5.22.0

=item *

Migrate modules from an old (inactive) local::lib directory:

  $ perl-migrate-modules --from ~/perl5-old/lib/perl5 /usr/bin/perl

=item *

Migrate modules to a custom local::lib location:

  $ env PERL_CPANM_OPT='-l /opt/project/local' perl-migrate-modules /opt/perl-5.28.0 /opt/perl-5.28.1

=item *

Update all modules installed in the current Perl:

  $ perl-migrate-modules $(which perl)

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

Only modules with F<.packlist> will be migrated, this will include any module
installed by CPAN clients, but generally not modules installed by vendor
packages or core modules.

Migrated modules will be installed at their latest indexed version, not the
version that exists in the source Perl.

Any environment settings that affect Perl's library search and module install
locations, such as C<PERL5LIB> or an active L<local::lib>, will be ignored for
the source Perl but will have its normal effect on installation into the
destination Perl.

=head1 BUGS

Report any issues on the public bugtracker.

=head1 AUTHOR

Dan Book <dbook@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2018 by Dan Book.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Artistic License 2.0 (GPL Compatible)

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<perlbrew/"COMMAND: CLONE-MODULES">

=cut
